this course will help someone with no
technical knowledge understand how the
internet works ian frost teaches this
course with tons of visuals just like he
has taught thousands of people on udemy
the internet is a part of our daily life
and we use it constantly but what is the
internet have you ever really thought
about it have you ever wondered what
happens in the background when you enter
a web page if your answer to all these
questions is yes you are definitely
looking at the right course in this
course i assume you don't know anything
and i am slowly explaining what the
internet is you don't need any prior
knowledge to follow this course since
this course tells you everything from
scratch with many abstractions these
abstractions will allow you to
understand the subject without knowing
details i think everyone who uses the
internet should know its basic features
everyone who uses the internet needs to
know the isp everyone who uses the
internet needs to know that the internet
is just cables spread all over the world
and in this course we will go on a
journey together and we will look at all
these concepts in a very visual way i
mean you will see exactly how the
internet works with your eyes
in addition at the end of the course
there are some questions related to this
course and by answering them you can
benefit from this course at the maximum
level okay
regardless of your age or profession
this course is for everyone you will
absolutely understand what the internet
is when you finish this course so let's
dive into it
now we are going to talk about a
scenario let's say you are the system
administrator of a small company and
your boss wants you to enable all these
computers to communicate with each other
i mean pc1 should be able to communicate
with pc7 or pc5 should be able to
communicate with pc4 and so on you got
the point but the question is how do we
do such a task and this is where the
switch device comes into play the switch
is the device we use for computers in
the same environment to communicate with
each other when i say in the same
environment what i mean is that i'm
talking about computers in the same
office house or at very close distance
to each other and this scenario is a
good example for such a situation
there's an office and in this office we
have seven computers that communication
of time is required wonderful we have a
switch to accomplish the communication
of computers this is good however
the question is
can these 7 computers communicate with
each other right now and the answer is
big no
because first of all these 7 computers
need to interact with the switch somehow
but how can we do that
i know that you have some ideas and you
are probably guessing right we must use
cables to connect computers to the
switch as you can see we are connecting
all the computers to the switch with the
help of cables we generally use copper
cables for this task and the type of
these copper cables can generally be
cat5 cable or k6 cable in small
environments by the way cat6 cables are
faster than cat5 cables and cat
represents category okay
on the other hand in addition to copper
cables some switches support fiber optic
cables as well and it is important to
note that fiber optic cables
are generally much faster compared to
copper cables in data transmission this
is very important
and
for switch devices
there is a crucial point to be aware of
please note that if there's a switch in
the environment and if you want to
connect computers to that switch we must
definitely use a cable that is generally
a copper cable or fiber optic cable
what i am trying to say is with wireless
technology you cannot connect computers
to a switch switches only work with
cables this is very vital guys if you
want to use a switch device you have to
use cable to connect your devices to the
switch it's that simple however if you
want to connect computers in the same
environment to each other by using all
wireless technology you can use an
access point device instead of a switch
device i mean you can use both a switch
device or an access point twice in order
to connect all the seven computers both
of them separately is acceptable for
this purpose the only difference between
these devices is access points use
wireless technology while switches use
cables okay
there are seven computers in this
environment and we can connect these
seven computers by using switches and
cables just like you see in the picture
or in the same way we can use an access
point device instead of a switch device
and if you use an access point device
access point uses wireless technology
instead of cables while communicating
with devices
in summary both the switch device or an
access point device enable these seven
computers to communicate this is obvious
but one uses cable and the other one
uses wireless technology
anyway what i just want you to know
right now is we generally use copper
cables in order to connect computers to
the switch in the environment such as a
hump or office
by the way i want to focus on the switch
device instead of the access point twice
in this course
very good
and at this moment all these computers
can communicate with each other with
ears because they connected to the
switch by using cables and this means
that they created a network in other
words the reason that these computers
can communicate with each other is
all of them are in the same network and
we call this special network as local
area network or briefly
lan a local area network is a collection
of devices connected together in
non-physical location such as a building
office or home as i just said if you
want to create a lan this location must
be a restricted location in terms of
area i mean you cannot create a lan
between computers located in united
states and computers located in russia
on the other hand this area is very
suitable area in order to create a lan
therefore these computers can
communicate with each other because all
of them are on the same lan with the
help of this switch so we can deduce
that if we want to create a lan we need
a switch device by using a switch device
we can create a local area network and
if we consider the millions of local
area network all over the world we can
easily understand how important a switch
device is you might think that all the
houses in the world are actually a local
area network you have a land in your
house or your neighbor's home also has a
land or there is also a lan in the
office where you work okay you catch the
idea
and now let's take a closer look at the
communication of computers and what this
event actually represent let's say pc1
wants to send a message to the pc6 by
the way the messages generated by
computers has a few special names some
people call them as packet and some
people call them as frame both of them
is okay but in this course i prefer to
use packet instead of frame okay pc1
will send a packet to the pc6 as you see
individual the packet firstly goes to
the switch and then the sewage looks at
the inside of the packet and learns the
destination of the packet and finally
the switch sends the packet to its
destination
and if pc1 can send a packet to the pc6
this means that pc1 and pc6 can
communicate with each other the logic is
basically this if a computer can send a
packet to another computer this refers
to these two computers are on the same
network and they can communicate with
each other this information is so
crucial guys okay
however maybe by looking at only this
switch image what the switch device
actually is may not be fully visualized
in your mind for this reason we will now
examine this slide for you to understand
the event better
this is the real version of a service
device and as you can see there are many
parts
on a switch device this is important
also the number of ports varies from one
switch device to another switch device i
mean different switches have different
numbers of parts some switches have temp
ports while some switches have more than
20 parts
and of course this generally leads to an
increase in price okay by the way
these parts
have a special name and they are called
lampards this probably makes sense to
you because as you know we create lands
by using switch devices for this reason
i think it is so reasonable to call
these parts lan ports because by
connecting these computers to these
parts we can create a lan
and in addition to this
there are lan ports on the back of our
computers or on the side of our laptops
just like these lamppods
you can see the related visuals on the
right side
and to establish a connection between
computers and switch we connect the lan
port on the computer and the lan port on
the switch with the help of a cable so
let's do this
let's start with this port and pc1 then
let's connect this part and piece it
after that let's connect this port and
pc3 and finally i want to make a
connection between this part and pc4
wonderful
and currently these computers can
communicate with each other but how
exactly does this communication happen
from a switch perspective let's take a
look at this
let's say pc1 wants to communicate with
pc4 so it will send a packet to the pcfr
this packet will go to this part of the
switch first and there we go
afterward
that part will give the packet to the
hardware inside the switch okay
then this switch will look inside this
packet and learns its destination
after that the switch gives this packet
to this port that is connected to pc4
and finally the switch sends the packet
to the pc4 okay
wonderful
and to summarize currently we have
connected these four computers to each
other thanks to the switch this means we
have created a local area network and
these computers can easily communicate
with each other since they're on the
same lan
i hope everything is quite good so far
and the switch device is visualized
better in your mind thanks to this slide
but there is a little issue here let me
explain if you are aware our computers
were in the same network and we have
only talked about the communication
between those devices we have never
talked about how these computers can
connect to the internet right
so the question is can these computers
communicate with the internet just by
having a switch device and this my
friends will be the question that we are
looking for an answer in the next lesson
see you guys soon
bye
in our previous lesson we briefly talked
about how to connect computers in an
office and how do we create a network
and i said that we can create a lan with
the help of a search device but the
problem is currently these computers can
only communicate among themselves they
cannot communicate with the internet
because the only task of the switch is
to create a lan and enable the
communication of the devices in the same
lan great
and by the way i would like to remove
this line statement from the visual
because you can understand that there's
a lan here thus we can work more
comfortably wonderful and the main
question is how do we connect these
computers to the internet and this is
where the router device comes into play
let me explain
the main task of the router is to enable
computers to connect to the internet
without a router it is impossible for us
to connect to the internet and in order
to provide this connection i mean in
order to provide a connection to the
internet first of all we must connect
this switch to this router and this
cable is a copper cable just like other
cables this is good but currently what
we have to do isn't over we still can't
connect to the internet in this
situation because we need a connection
between the rotor and the internet as
well and as you know a special cable
comes to our homes or offices and this
cable is given us by internet service
provider and thanks to the disk cable we
connect to the internet if you have
never heard of internet service provider
don't worry we will talk about it in
detail but for now all you need to know
is the internet service provider is
giving us this cable for a certain
amount of money so that we can connect
to the internet easily okay
so currently we have everything
necessary to connect to the internet by
using these computers hence let's see
the basic tasks of the switch and router
one by one on the animation
these seven computers in the office can
communicate with each other thanks to
the switch for example let's say pc1
wants to communicate with pc5 for this
purpose pc1 will send a packet to the
pc5 so
easy now the packet firstly goes to the
switch and afterwards the switch learns
the destination of the packet and
finally the switch sends the packet to
its destination and there we go this is
how two computers in the same lan
communicate with each other and please
always remember a switch device is
enough for us in order for communication
of devices in the same lan
on the other hand a router has no role
in the communication of different
devices in the same lan like pc1 and pc5
this is very vital ok
i hope i could explain the event
and
however guys
what if pc1 was to communicate with the
internet in other words what will happen
if pc1 was to send a packet to the
internet
let's see
first of all you should remember this
information if a computer can send
packets to the internet this means that
this computer communicates with the
internet frankly speaking i believe that
you exactly understand the logic of this
event anymore if we can send packets
from one point to another point these
two points can communicate it's that
simple but the question is how will pc1
send packets to the internet
to be able to do this first pc1 must set
its packet to the switch just like
before because there is no other way for
pc1 to be able to reach the router right
i mean if pc1 wants to send a packet to
the internet this packet must reach the
router no matter what because the router
is a door to access the internet this is
obvious
hence if pc1 wants to communicate with
the router it must send its packet to
the switch first after that the switch
looks at inside of the packet and
understand that the packet wants to go
to the internet so
it sends the packet to the router and
there we go
and then the router firstly looks at the
inside of the packet and understand that
the packet wants to go to the internet
and afterward it sends the package to
the internet
over this part
and there we go
by the way if you are aware we have
plugged this cable that we purchased
from the isp into this part this is
obvious i believe that currently you can
easily imagine in an intuitive manner
how the cables coming to the router like
this or like this are plugged into the
parts i mean there are some ports on the
router and you need to put the cables
into that box it's that simple
i will not show this regionally because
detailed information about the parts
isn't important for you at this moment
you just must understand the logic
behind the router okay
and as a result pc1 sent its packet to
the internet in other words pc1 and the
internet communicated and the device
that helped us to connect to the
internet is the router wonderful
i believe that you understand the most
basic tasks of the sewage and router and
i hope the animations have been useful
for better understanding however i want
to ask you two questions
my first question is can you visualize
the internet
in your mind
and the second question is what exactly
does the internet mean and these will be
the questions that we are going to
discuss in the next lessons
see you guys soon
before discussing the meaning of
connecting to the internet from a
computer perspective i think it is
helpful to know what the internet
exactly stands for because if you are
really starting from scratch i mean i
assume that you are real newbies you may
not know exactly what the internet is
for this reason i want to visualize the
internet for better understanding
to do this in this lesson we are going
to see how a packet moves on the
internet
by the way keep in mind that this model
you see is a simplified model designed
to make the concept easier to understand
so this structure in real life is much
more complex than you see individual but
with this simplified model you will
understand the logic of the event very
well i promise you and i believe that's
all you need right now
as you can see there are many writers on
the internet right and there's a special
reason for this
so at this moment i would like to give
you another piece of information about a
router a router is a device required for
a computer or electronic device to
connect to the internet
you know this definition on the other
hand you can think of the router as the
device we use to communicate with your
computer in another part of the world or
you can think of the router as the
device we use to communicate with the
computer in a different plan
i mean if you are aware there is a land
here right and there is another land
here this is obvious therefore we can
draw the following conclusion connecting
to the internet actually can stand for
connecting to the another computer
located anywhere in the world i mean you
can think of the internet is the
structure that connects
all the lands all over the world i want
to repeat this again
you can think of the internet as a
structure that connects old lands
all over the world
and as you know there are millions of
lands connected to the internet except
these lands
wonderful
i hope that everything is good so far
but there's a thing that we need to
consider so i want to ask you a question
why are there so many routers here
let me explain it in a simple manner
first you should know that these routers
are distributed around the world in an
organized manner however
routers aren't the only devices in this
structure this is important there are
thousands of routers
and
other different devices in this
structure distributed pretty widely but
focusing on only writers is enough for
us in order to understand the concept
behind the internet
and the first question that comes to
your mind is probably why routers are so
important to the internet
as a matter of fact the answer to this
question is hidden in the core task of a
router the device we use to enable
different plans to communicate with each
other is drought right and thanks to the
internet we can connect all the lands in
the world to each other you know for
this reason it makes perfect sense to
use many routers to connect millions of
local area networks together
these lands you see are just two of the
millions of local area networks all over
the world in summary if the internet
must connect millions of local area
networks it is obvious that it needs
routers i hope you got this
and once you understand the importance
of the router for the internet you
probably think of another question and
the second question that probably comes
to your mind is why there are so many
writers instead of just one writer and i
think this is a more critical question
than the first question and let me
answer it on the visual
but before answering this question there
is something in this picture that should
catch your attention please look
carefully at the picture and try to find
this difference
as you can see these lines on the visual
have one device instead of a sewage and
a router so if there is no switch in the
environment how can there be a lan or if
there is no router in the environment
how can it be connected to the internet
and this is where the home router comes
into play a home router is a combat
device consisting of a router and switch
combination
hence these devices in the lens are a
mix of the switch and router this means
that if we have a home router we don't
need an additional switch and router
this device is enough for small
environments like a home or small office
this is important i want to repeat this
again a home router is enough for us in
small environments or if there are very
few devices in the environment okay
i showed you home router because most of
you have these devices in your home and
you connect to the internet by using
home routers for this reason i wanted to
tell you what these devices are in order
to avoid confusion however please note
that if there are too many devices in
the environment the home router will be
insufficient and you may need additional
switch and router you catch the idea
and now let's go back to our question
why there are so many routers instead of
just a single router
imagine that there is a single router in
the middle of the world instead of
thousands of routers distributed all
over the world
in this case millions of electronic
devices around the world would have to
be connected to the same router this is
obvious this means that this single
router needs
millions of parts isn't it and it is
impossible to design such a device
but this is not the only problem in
addition to it if there was only one
router the entire lot of the all devices
in the world would be on that router and
this is another problem because in
computer science we don't want to give
all the lot on a single point we even
call this problem the single point of
failure and this is a problem that needs
to be considered
to be able to teach it better let me
give you an example imagine this router
is broken somehow this means that the
internet of the whole world is crashing
down at the same time right because we
only use a single router to connect all
lands around the world
the rotor broke down and the whole
internet crashed down it's that simple
just think about the consequences of
this problem in a second this would be
terrible right
and so far we have talked about two
vital problems but it isn't over another
major problems is the cable length
problem
imagine how long the cable must be if
there was only one giant router in the
middle of the world
especially lands that are the furthest
from the giant router will need very
long cables this is obvious right
therefore this design is a very
problematic design and the solution for
all these problems is
this distributed structure
all over the world
you catch the idea but to make sure you
fully understand the main logic of this
structure i want you to do an exercise i
want you to determine why such a
structure eliminates the problems we
talked about shortly before i'm sure
that you can handle this
just do it guys
i asked you a question at the end of the
previous lesson and i know that you were
all analyzing the situation but let's do
it together just in case as you know if
we used a single router at the middle of
the world we would have problems with
the overloading of the router
on the other hand we would need many
long cables for lens that are the
furthest from the giant router but as
you can see in this structure the cables
don't have to be that long and this is
an important advantage actually
of course we can need long cables in
this structure too but not as much as in
the other structure after all in this
structure there can be many kilometers
between two routers this is reasonable
however this is by no means laying
cables from one end of the world to the
other end right and while we only
connect two routers with one cable in
this structure we will connect millions
of lamps to the giant router in the
other structure so we will need a lot of
very long cables to a single point and
it creates a huge mass imagine cables
coming to the giant router from millions
of lamps that locate in the furthest
area you got the point
by using this structure we minimize the
cable mass and we avoid overloading of a
router
everything is good but what about the
load overloading since there are many
routers load balance process is very
efficient in the distributed structure i
mean this system works very well and in
addition to load balancing it solves the
single point of failure problem as well
for example this router this router this
router and this router are broken
somehow in this case the internet
continues to work properly right
only its efficiency decreases a bit on
the other hand
when there is only one router and if
this router is broken the whole internet
crashes down and this was very bad so i
believe that consistency is very
important for such a huge structure
like the internet
and now i want to show you a visual that
shows the cables between different
countries and different continents with
this visual you will understand much
better what the internet is
these cables are very important
especially for the communication of
countries that there is an ocean between
them and this visual represents real
life itself unlike the simplified model
we use
99 of all international communication on
the internet is provided by these 468
cable lines laid under the water this is
very crucial guys some of these cables
are only
131 kilometers long while others are
around 20 000 kilometers long and so on
and the funny thing is
breaking one of these cables can cause
the internet of the whole continent to
go away in a flash time in fact it was
happened such an event in 2018
and i want to show this on a different
image okay
i want you to focus on this red cable
this is an almost 17 000 long cable that
starts in france and reaches south
africa and this cable connects 22
countries on the west coast of europe
and africa to each other and to the
internet and the internet of 10 of these
countries crashed down when a fishing
boat accidentally cut the cable and i
think this was a definitely tragicomic
event in addition to this as you can
imagine this is not the only problem
that happens to cables because we are
talking about 1 million kilometer long
cables spread all over the world so
there must be something more as a matter
of fact nearly 200 problems are
encountered each year and these are
substantially related to the ships or
natural disasters and there's a final
reason that i prefer to use
substantially word let me explain
in 2007 sea pirates stole 11 kilometers
of a cable connecting thailand vietnam
and hong kong to each other and they
sold this long cable as scrap by
dividing it and i think this event is
more surprising than the incredible
infrastructure of the internet
now i have back to the first slide
because there is something i want to
show here these colorful cables
generally represent
intercontinental connections under
waters but for example if you look at
russia land
cables are not visible on this image
please don't be confused about it of
course there are cables and routers
distributed all over russia too they are
just ignored in this image i mean the
main purpose of this image was to show
you how devices from different
continents are interconnected under the
water okay
also note that all of these cables under
waters are fiber optic cables because
the fastest data transmission cable type
is fiber of the cables and
intercontinental data transmission must
occur at the highest bit right
and another reason of why we don't use
copper cables is when the length of the
copper cables increases the probability
of errors in data transmission increases
as well
on the other hand even if the fiber
optic cables are very long
they transmit the data to its
destination almost without ever and this
is another reason that wi-fi blocked
cables are used over long distances
great
i think it is important for you to
understand what the internet really is
it is very vital to be able to visualize
it in your mind because no matter what
area of it you are dealing with you need
to grasp this basic subject
actually there was something else i
wanted to show in this lesson but i
don't want to extend this lesson any
further we will continue where we left
off in the next lesson that will be a
very important lesson see you guys in a
moment
in this lesson we are going to discuss
how a packet moves over the internet in
this way you will understand how two
devices in different countries
communicate with each other we will see
this on an example let's say this
computer in lan 1 was to communicate
with this computer in lantern okay in
other words let's assume that this
computer was to send a special packet to
this computer so this packet must go to
the disrupter to exit from the land run
you know because our destination is the
out of landman i mean it is a different
network our destination is on lantern
and we can send our package over the
internet to lanter and now we are going
to do this exactly
first this computer sends the packet to
the switch
after the switch receives the package
the switch looks at the destination
address of the packet and understand
that it has to send the packet to the
router and after the router receives the
packet the router looks at the content
of it and learns its destination address
hence it understand that it must set the
packet to the internet because the
destination of the packet is in a
different network than lan one so the
router must set the packet to this
router that is connected because this
router is the key router for line 1 to
connect to the internet i mean if this
router needs to send a packet to the
internet it must send the packet to this
router no matter what there is no other
option right and you can think of this
link as the connection of lan1 to the
internet and if this link is cut somehow
the devices in lan 1 cannot access the
internet it's that simple
after this point things will get a
little complicated so please listen to
me very carefully after packet reaches
this router the packet has three options
to go this part this pad or dispatch
right this is obvious but the question
is which path is better option to go for
the packet and in order to answer this
question first we need to discuss what
the routing table is each router must
have a special table inside called
routing table and after receiving a
packet a router looks at its routing
table to learn which path it must send
the packet for this router it should be
this pad this pad or this pad right this
is obvious and if you are aware firstly
the router receives the packet from one
of its parts i hope that you can imagine
all these cables that come counted
router are plugged into a port on the
router very good and after the router
receives the packet the router learns
the destination of the packet and sends
the packet to an appropriate port
according to the information on the
routing table and we call this operation
forwarding
as a result every router needs to look
at its routing table to learn which path
it must forward the packet in other
words we can easily understand that
routing tables need to have information
that which path a packet will got okay
it is very important to know this
fundamental task of the routing table
each router has a special processor and
information in the routing table is
created by this special processor using
many different algorithms these
algorithms determine the part that a
packet must go and the results of these
algorithms are added to the routing
table okay
as a result this router will look at its
routing table and learn which part the
packet must be forwarded one
two or three
meanwhile when a router makes this
decision it always ignores the path that
the packet came from because it makes no
sense to forward the packet back the way
it came from right and let's say
according to the routing table of this
router the packet must be forwarded over
path 3 and there we go
after that
this router needs to look at its routing
table to decide which path the packet
must go to assume that the routing table
saves the packet must be forwarded over
patter so the packet will go to this
router right and there we go
if you are aware the event is always the
same and it will continue to be the same
in every router until the packet reaches
lanter
anyway let's keep going where we left
off this router must look at its routing
table to determine which path the packet
will be forwarded
let's say the router choose that one so
the packet will go to this router right
wonderful
and at this moment please listen to me
very carefully because there's a tricky
part here
when you look at the password current
position of the packet
you probably think of the most
reasonable option expecter because the
shortest path to be able to access this
router that is connected to this router
seems to be factor right and if we
choose patch one for example we have to
go to this router first and from here we
can go to this router
or if we choose pad 3 we will go to this
router first and from here we can go to
this router similarly
but if we choose part 2
we can go directly to this router and
this is what we want but is this really
the case let's see together first of all
never forget that routers always want to
deliver the packet to its destination as
fast as possible so if this router
chooses pad 3 instead of pad 2 it may
seem unreasonable to you at the
beginning i understand that because you
decide with a very simple logic you are
just using your eyes however routers use
many algorithms when creating their
routing tables and these algorithms have
many variables i mean routers have to
take into account many situations when
they are creating routing tables for
example
let's call every router as a point in
this structure okay so when routers
create their routing tables they are not
only concerned with the number of points
when choosing the shortest route to the
destination this is really very
important and i want to give an example
to you to understand this subject better
in some cases routers control the
traffic of their links they are
connected to and if a path is too busy
in terms of packet density the router
will not send the packet over that part
i mean for instance there may be an
excessive density on the part 2 line
even if it seems the best option okay
and since the router knows this line is
too busy when creating its routing table
it may decide that it is more convenient
to set the packet over pad 3 instead of
patter and we call this situation
congestion control ok
i think that i could get to the point as
a result the router sells the packet
over pad 3 and here we go
as you can see the number of points that
the packet went through has increased
however with the selection of pad 3 the
package can probably reach its
destination faster don't forget this and
after this moment let the packet go to
this router and there we go
and this router knows that the packet
will go to the lantern and it sends the
packet to the router in the home okay
by the way you can think of this line as
a straight line like that
and this router knows that the packet
came to this computer so it sends the
packet to the related computer
wonderful
as you can see two devices located in
distant areas basically communicate with
each other thanks to the internet we can
communicate in milliseconds with the
device on the other side of the world
thanks to the internet i am talking
about milliseconds guys this is a huge
thing and that's the main reason of why
the internet is one of the most
important thing that mankind created
i hope i was able to explain intuitively
what the internet represents however
there is also something else very
important that i have to say i want to
tell you the bookish definition of the
internet
the internet is the network of the
networks
let me repeat the internet is the
network of the networks
i believe that you got this but i would
like to make this definition more
meaningful to you firstly think about
your own harm maybe you have a lot of
devices that can connect to the internet
for example computers mobile phones
televisions game consoles tablets and
many many more
similarly most people have many devices
with an internet connection in their
home just like you right
in the same way you can think about a
company or an enterprise that has a huge
number of devices and you know that
there are many companies and enterprises
in all over the world so as you notice
there are many small or medium-sized
lands spread all over the world
and all these lands on the visual
represent these networks
as a result the combination of all these
networks
stand for the internet itself this is
very important the combination of all
these networks stands for the internet
itself in other words we are talking
about a huge system in which almost all
electronic devices in the world used to
communicate with each other
by the way there is a very important
part here to understand on the visual we
called this structure that is in the
middle of the visual as the internet and
you will see such a representation in
many resources you can usually see a
cloud logo in order to represent the
internet
but in fact the internet is this fixed
structure you see
formed by a combination of all these
networks and this structure in the
middle okay this is very crucial guys
what i am trying to say is
when you only see such a representation
you should think that there are millions
of lands that are connected to it even
if these lands don't appear individual
okay
and the internet
is a huge system that includes all lands
in the world
so i hope that you understand better
reason of the bookish definition of the
internet the internet is the network of
networks
wonderful
and you can think of this structure as
the heart of the internet for example
when we connect this lan to the heart of
the internet with this cable
this lan will be included in the
internet and it can communicate other
devices that are connected to the
internet
you catch the idea
so far we have learned what the internet
is and how important routers are but
what exactly does connecting to the
internet look like from a computer's
perspective and we are going to discuss
this question in the next lesson
see you guys soon bye
now we are going to discuss the meaning
of connecting to the internet from the
computer's perspective and i believe
that it is very important to understand
this event assume that we are in a home
instead of an office and we have only
one computer therefore to be able to
connect to the internet what we only
need is a home router isn't it there is
no need for a switch since we don't have
other devices to connect to each other
in this home very good
by the way if you want we could use a
router device instead of a home router
device because if you are aware we want
to use only the router feature of the
home router we don't need to use the
switch feature of the home router right
because there is only one computer in
the environment
i believe currently you know which
device actually does what this should be
logical to you therefore i will assume
that
you know what basic networking devices
are doing from now on
and so far you have learned that the
connection situation of the internet is
determined by whether the related
computer can send a packet to the
internet or not
and now i will try to make this
situation more meaningful to you
you are watching this video on the
udemy.com website right
i mean let's say you are turning on your
computer and entering udemy.com on your
favorite web browser then you click on
the video you are watching right now or
any video you want to watch and as soon
as you click on one of these videos your
computer creates a packet and sends this
packet to udemy.com over the internet
the package firstly is sent to home
router and then the home router sends
the package to udemy.com over the
internet and we can think of this green
packet as your request message to
udemy.com
a request message gives information to
udemy.com about you want to watch the
related video okay this is very crucial
and after udemy.com receives your
request message about watching a
specific video it naturally realizes
that you want to watch a video hence
udemy sends the related video to you
over the internet and there we go
these red packers represent the pieces
of the video that udemy sent to you in
other words the video you are watching
right now
by the way there's a very important
thing about this process let me explain
while you are watching any video on
udemy udemy sends it to you piece by
piece and we call this process streaming
i think you have heard of this concept
before and with the help of streaming
technology you can watch the videos
uninterruptedly or without any problem
and to be able to show this piece by
piece sending process better now i have
opened a random video on udemy.com
you can see that the video is being sent
to my computer from udemy.com piece by
piece
thanks to the ability to send videos
piece by piece we can watch the video
without requirement for all the video to
reach our computer for example imagine
you want to watch a one hour video and
assume that your internet speed is so
slow
if you couldn't watch this video before
the whole video reached your computer it
will be very bad for you right
fortunately the process doesn't work
like that okay
and in addition this transmission time
varies depending on the speed of our
internet the faster our internet speed
is the sooner the video will reach our
computer it's that simple
i hope in this way you have a better
understanding of what these red packets
are
great
as a result connecting to the internet
reverser you can send some packets to
the internet and you can receive some
packets from the internet and here the
router or home router in this situation
plays a very important role the home
router gives the packets it receives
from the computer to the internet and
gives the packets it receives from the
internet to the computer
in summary packet transmission is the
basis of connecting to the internet or
communicating with a computer on the
other side of the world
meanwhile when we enter udemy.com we
communicate with very powerful computers
that actually belongs to udemy.com
and we call this special computers
server
servers do not differ fundamentally from
normal computers however since the
servers will exchange packets with
thousands of normal computers at the
same time servers must be much more
powerful computers in terms of hardware
compared to normal computers because as
you know too many people access
udemy.com at the same time i mean too
many people access servers of udemy.com
at the same time and at this moment let
me tell you what i mean when i say
servers of the udemy if you remember we
talked about the importance of the
single point of failure and
load balancing before and this is true
for servers of udimeter there is not a
single udemy server in the world udemy
has a lot of servers distributed around
different parts of the world the
location of one of these servers is the
best for you and
you communicate with this best suited
server it's that simple
as a result when you want to enter
udemy.com you are actually communicating
with one of the suitable udemy servers
for you so
while some of you communicate with the
same server
some of you will communicate with a
different server but at the end of today
you will all get the same content
therefore thanks to distributed servers
udemy prevents single point of failure
and provides load balancing
please think about it a little okay
by the way of course there are many
details behind the transmission of
packets but you can think of it in this
way as the simplest logic and that's all
i need to say in this lesson
see you guys soon
bye
in this lesson we will shortly talk
about the white area network or briefly
van which is a very important type of
network for the internet in a simple
manner you can think of van as a network
consisting of a combination of different
plants for example with the combination
of these two lamps we can create a van
or combination of this land this then
and this land we can create another one
okay and in order to understand better
the logic of van we can talk about the
company example let's say we have a
growing company and we opened some
offices in different parts of the world
and we want these offices to be in the
same network even if they are far apart
and this is where the wide area network
comes into play by using van we can
create a special network for our
requirements let's say this is one of
our lan and this is our another lan and
they are located in different parts of
the world and we want to create a van
for our company by using these two lands
but the question is how do we do that
let's see
let's say our boss wants us to establish
a special network for these lands i mean
he wants the computers in these two
different offices to work as if they're
in the same environment so our guy is
van if we create a van these lands can
communicate as if they are in the same
environment but there is an important
point to consider here
thanks to the internet we can already
enable these lands to communicate right
as you know the internet stands for the
network of networks this means that the
internet itself represents connecting
millions of lands together
hence if these lands are already
connected to the internet computers in
lan 1 and computers in lan 2 can already
communicate over the internet this is
obvious
so the question is if these offices can
already communicate with each other
over the internet
why we need another special network as a
van
please be careful communication over the
internet directly and communication over
a special van belongs to a company is a
whole different tank
so
i want you to think about that question
for a short time and try to answer it
if you have noticed the internet is a
public network i mean the internet has
no owner and it belongs to everyone any
person can connect to the internet
whenever and wherever he wants for this
reason it is obvious that this public
and huge network can have security
related problems in information transfer
between different locations you know
hackers are everywhere and they are in
this public and huge network too and to
be able to answer the question i just
asked better i want to give you a very
good example
let's say this computer wants to send an
important file related to the company to
this computer and after the file is sent
to this computer there will be no any
problem because this transmission
process took place within this lan
this lan is a private network for this
office an outsider cannot directly
access this land without your permission
this is very important hence file
transmission operation in this land is a
secure operation in general
everything is good so far but what would
happen if this file was sent to the
other office over the internet
let's see
now the scenario is the same again we
need to send a file related to the
company but this time we must send this
file to the other office of the company
as you can see the file passes through
the public network isn't it and this is
where the problems appear just think
about it this part of the internet is an
absolute public network this means that
if you send the file over the internet
like that there is no guarantee that no
one from the outside can't see this file
or worst no one from the outside can't
change this file as i said before
hackers are everywhere and the
possibility of these issues are
generally not low hence it is important
to remember that there is a possibility
for a problem when you send this file
about the company over the internet
directly especially if it is a very
important file about the company it is
very vital to be careful
and a special one for the company is a
solution to such problems in general
setting up a van is a costly and not
easy task but fortunately there are
various methods of setting up a van and
now we will only talk about the most
popular and cost effective van method
and this method is then by using vpn
i am sure that you have heard of vpn
before it stands for virtual private
network and people usually use vpn to
access restricted websites because vpn
ensures are anonymity and it encrypts
our data before signing the packet hence
this gives us high security in general
and while creating vans by using vpn
technology we take advantage of these
features of vpn but the most important
feature you should know about vpn is the
tunneling this feature of vpn provides
privacy anonymity and security to us by
creating a special network connection
over a public network this is really
very important i want to repeat this
again vpn tunneling provides privacy
anonymity and security to us by creating
a special network connection over a
public network however frankly speaking
a physical tunnel isn't created here
this is very crucial tunneling
technology makes the packet acts as if
it is going through a physical tunnel
but i won't repeat it again this is not
a physical tunnel this tunnel visual
just represents the high security
connection between line 1 and lan 2. you
can think of it in this way this tunnel
visual just stands for the high security
for the connection between these routers
it's that simple
by the way of course the packet will
pass through main routers on the
internet in order to reach its
destination just as you have learned
before however since vpn uses tunneling
it will be almost impossible to
interfere with this packet from the
outside
great
i hope that you got the channeling
conceptually but i want to take a closer
look at it so first we sent our file to
the router and there we go
and at this moment
there will be some changes on the packet
but before doing these changes first of
all you should know that vpn tunnelling
is set up between these routers this is
very crucial and we call this
site-to-site vpn
this method is very popular while
creating a van between offices and
thanks to the tunneling our file saved
reaches lanter you know but the question
is if tunneling is not a physical tunnel
as shown in the picture what exactly is
it let's see
i will use an analogy to explain this
let's say you need to send a letter from
land1 to lanter so you should give the
letter you wrote to a postman right the
postman can take this letter to its
destination and suppose you are not
putting this letter in an envelope this
means that the postman can read the
letter if he wants this is obvious
you can think of the postman in this
example as the public internet on the
other hand if you had put this letter in
an envelope first and gave it to the
postman in this way the postman wouldn't
be able to read it this is obvious
hence the process of putting glitter in
an envelope represents the tunneling
itself so in the real scenario we had to
put this yellow packet into another
packet and there we go assume that the
yellow packet is in the red packet it's
just like putting the letter in an
envelope that's the whole idea about
tunneling wonderful and at this moment i
want to ask you a question and my
question is that is this packet really
in safe right now i mean can't the
postman open the envelope and find out
the information in it if he really wants
to just think about it
you got the point right even though we
have increased the security of the
packet by applying tunneling there are
still some problems and this is where
encryption comes into play suppose that
you encrypt your letter in a way that
only people working in your company can
understand in this case even if the
postman opens the envelope he cannot
obtain the information because he will
see non-understandable data he will not
understand the encrypted information so
what we have to do is very simple right
we must encrypt the original packet
before putting it into another packet
so let me back one step on the animation
and for this scenario we encrypt the
yellow packet before putting it in the
red packet and then we put this
encrypted packet into the red packet
and finally this packet is sent to land2
over the internet safely and there we go
it's that simple guys we encrypted the
original packet and put it in another
packet thus we maximized the security of
the packet okay
the term of tunneling comes from here
because packet is safe is if it was
moving in your own private tunnel i hope
that i made this concept understandable
to you and at this moment the router
needs to get the original packet and to
be able to do this the router first
eliminates the outside packet right and
then it needs to decrypt the encrypted
packet so that it can obtain the
original packet and after the router
gets the original packet it looks inside
the packet and learns its destination
and sends the packet to its destination
and there we go
as a result with the help of the van by
using vpn we can securely send company
related information from one lan to
another but never forget that there is
no such thing as 100 percent security
this means there may be always a
security vulnerability for every system
however currently one network's built by
using vpn technology are quite
satisfactory in terms of both budget and
security okay
i believe everything is good so far but
some of you curious can think about
equation you probably think like
i constantly use the internet in daily
life i send mail to my friends i use
e-commerce website and i do all of these
over the internet so since the internet
is a public network are all these
operations insecure the answer is both
yes and now let me explain
assume that you want to make an
operation on amazon.com and let's say
you had to enter some information about
your credit card while purchasing a
product since this information will be
sent as a packet over the internet to
one of the servers of amazon.com we
absolutely don't want anyone from the
outside to see the information about our
credit card as a solution to this an
end-to-end encryption method is used
between our computer and the destination
server and since the packet is encrypted
nobody from the outside can see the
information about our credit card except
the server of amazon.com this is the
main logic behind the end-to-end
encryption only the end points can
decrypt the packet and obtain to
original data okay
however this kind of encryption was not
used in the past and this situation made
it easy for hackers imagine that the
information about your credit card was
directly obtained by a hacker in pure
text this is terrible right but thanks
to end-to-end encryption we eliminate
this problem
and finally i am going to ask you a
question and then i am going to finish
the lesson
now you know what one is right in
summary ban represents the networks we
create by combining different plans in
this case my question is what is the
largest white area network in the world
the answer comes to your mind rapidly
isn't it the internet itself is the
largest wide orient network in the world
however i want to remind you again
please note that a company's van created
with vpn is different from the internet
while one of these vans is completely
special to the company the internet
is owned by everyone in the world and
yeah that's all i would like to say
about run see you guys soon
we have learned a lot of information
about network devices until now and in
this lesson we will look at a few more
cases by using these devices let's say
we have two offices belongs to the same
company and suppose that there are 100
meters between these offices if you are
aware this distance is very short in
this case what i am wondering is whether
or not we can connect which one and
switch to direct to each other to create
a lan and the answer is we can
definitely do this because as you know
that we use switches to create lands
therefore we can create a lan by
connecting these switches to each other
even if they are not in the same
environment but please note that the
distance is very short between these
offices if this distance were not too
short
it is impossible to connect these
switches and create a lan
meanwhile these types of lands can be
called campus area network or briefly
can since these types of networks are
generally used on university campuses
okay on the other hand you know that we
can also connect these two offices by
using van with vpn but please note that
vat and lan are different kinds of
network types this is important and you
can see the package sent with tunneling
in the animation
and there we go
yep
i believe so far everything is good but
i want to ask you a question which one
do you think is more secure when with
vpn or lan created by connecting
switches directly please think about it
for a short time and try to answer it
the answer is so simple isn't it a lan
is always more secure than a van because
in the communication within the lan the
packet never passes over the internet
the packet always moves on our own cable
on the other hand even if the packet is
protected in the van the packet still
passes over the internet and as you know
there is never such a thing as 100
percent security even if the packet is
protected with tunneling and encryption
so to summarize both of these methods
are secure but lan is more secure this
is obvious
however there is a condition that a van
is almost as secure as alarm and we call
private van for this type of van by the
way we haven't talked about this one
type before i mean this is different
from man with vpn because the line
between offices is dedicated for the
company you request this line from the
isp and give a special money for this
line thus the isp gives you a private
line that only your company can use we
call the van created in this way is
private van okay and please remember
that we were using public internet
network inven with vpn and that's why we
also call wemitvpn is public van this is
very crucial in addition even if private
van sounds great at the first glance it
can be quite costly for this reason it
makes sense for an average company to
prefer public van instead of private one
you know public van provides us security
that we definitely cannot underestimate
right
wonderful
now i want you to pay attention to one
point some of you may have already
noticed this but it will be good to
mention in any case
we use switch devices to create a lan
while we use routers to create a van
this is very vital i want to repeat this
again we use switches to create a lan
while we use routers to create a van
this means we can not create a van by
using switch devices because a van
fundamentally represents connection of
different plants with the help of one
different plants can act as if they are
in the same environment and you know
that if you want to connect different
plants we definitely need a router for
this task you got the point
and now i want to talk a little bit
about the router until now i have always
explained the router as an internet
related device however it isn't the main
task of the router is to connect
different networks that's it you should
realize that these networks may be in
different parts of the world or maybe in
the same office it really doesn't matter
and in this slide you can see that two
different plants in the same office are
connected to each other thanks to the
router device suppose that one of these
networks is related to the marketing
unit of the company and the other
related to the software unit and as you
know if we want different networks to
communicate with each other we should
use a router
in the animation you can see that lan 1
and land2 communicate through the router
and there we go
great
and here i want to give you additional
information about the router i want you
to focus on the cables of the router if
you are aware each cable is connected to
a different network i mean one of the
cables is connected to lan 1 one of the
cables is connected to line 2 and one of
the cables is connected to the internet
this is the case for the router the
router connects different networks you
know for this reason each cable
connected to a port on the router
represents a different network okay
by the way you may have wondered why
different networks are needed within the
same office as a matter of fact this is
a common situation in real life i mean
you may want different units in the
office to be in different networks this
might be offsearch for an office with 4
computers however imagine an office with
50 computers in it dividing these
computers into units increases hierarchy
and order never forget that
as you can see the basic principles are
the same everywhere by using these basic
principles we can enable devices in
different parts of the world to
communicate and we can enable devices in
the same office to communicate both of
them represents the same task i think
you understand this concept very well
and that's all i want to say in this
lesson see you guys soon
in one of our previous lessons i told
you we purchased this cable that came to
our home from isp but i haven't
mentioned what exactly isp is and in
this lesson we are going to discuss what
is the isp and why it is so important
the internet service provider or briefly
isp is responsible for the transmission
of packets from one location to another
if you remember we have learned that
there are a lot of routers in the heart
of the internet i'm talking about this
structure and you can think of the isp
as the mechanism that controls all these
routers in this structure for example
there are actually many routers in this
globalizer similarly there are main
routers in this regional sp but to
simplify the concept i didn't visually
show the routers within the isps however
i want you to imagine that the routers
distributed around the world are
controlled by these isps this is very
crucial think of it as each isp controls
specific routers and packets are sent
from one location to another location
over these routers we previously talked
about how the packet travels from one
point to another via routers
understanding this situation is the
first condition to understand the isp
what i am trying to say is certain isps
are responsible for certain routers
i want you to imagine that every isp you
see in this picture is responsible for
certain routers okay but i am removing
them from the visual for the simplicity
of the concept
in addition
the isp model you see here is a
simplified model but even if the model
is simple it is enough to understand the
most important parts of the concept
let's start with basic definition of the
isp isps represent companies that serve
us so that we can connect to the
internet and of course they charge a
certain fee for this service you cannot
connect to the internet without an isp
think of isp as the structure that
allows you to connect to the internet
and isp is not a single structure there
are hundreds of thousands of isps in the
world and all these isps come together
to form the structure you see individual
there is few isp individual i know that
but i can say that there are hundreds of
thousands of isps in real life
the most common isp type in the world is
local asp and now i want to start with
it the first step of connecting to the
internet is to communicate with the
local asp and local isps are generally
responsible for small area
communications for example the
communications of two different plants
in the same neighborhood or
communication of lands located in
neighborhoods close to each other
let's say we live in the usa and these
two homes are located in the same
neighborhood
if this computer wants to communicate
with this computer the connection is
provided directly over this local asp
this is obvious you can see this on the
animation
the packet passes through different
routers at local sp and reaches its
destination
but in general since the local isp is
responsible for the communication of
small areas the packet can also pass
through only one router before reaching
its destination
you can think of this local asp as the
isp that only connects lands within a
neighborhood
of course a local asp can connect
different neighborhoods but in this
scenario let's say it doesn't therefore
one router can be enough to connect them
you got the point
and in this visual you can see an
example of a small local asp office and
we call these offices point of presence
or briefly
pub
in fact routers distributed over the
internet are included in these paths and
in this five in other words in this
office
routers are on the left side
in addition you have probably noticed
that there are other devices than
routers
because sometimes we must do different
configurations with different devices
hence app must save routers switches
servers and so on but the device we use
to connect different networks to each
other is the router you know for this
reason we will only focus on writers
and in our previous lessons the routers
on the internet visual were actually
representing pubs spread over the world
and in order to explain this better i
want to talk on a different image but in
this image i want to think of different
tassels and offices connected to local
sb2 and locally sp3 i mean we won't talk
about these songs you got the point
and
there we go
as you can see a home and small office
connect to a pub over localized speeder
so this pub is the first point to be
able to connect to the internet for this
home and this office this should be
clear to you
by the way if you are aware
local sb2 has four paths
you might think that thanks to these
four paths local b2 connects different
neighborhoods and in this way lands in
different neighborhoods can communicate
over localized b2 effectively and from
here we can draw the following
conclusion
some local asps can have more than one
pub however some local asps can only
have one pop this depends on the size of
the local asp for example if a local asp
connects four different neighborhoods it
may have four different paths but if a
local asp connects only one neighborhood
it has only one pup you catch the idea
and if you want to do more detailed
studies on this topic you will see many
resources on the internet with raw
dragons you should be aware that these
icons actually represent the water
within the pub there are many pubs
distributed all over the world and
routers are in these paths it's that
simple
at this moment i want you to imagine
that there are hundreds of thousands of
local asps in the world and these local
aspects connect to regional aspects that
are larger than them this means that
different local asps communicate over
regional airspace for example local sp2
communicates with local asp3 over the
original sp1
as a matter of fact you can think of
local aspects connect neighborhoods and
regional aspects connect cities in a
country it's that simple i won't repeat
this again you can think of local asps
connect neighborhoods or small areas and
regional recipes connect cities in a
country okay
meanwhile there is one regional sp in
this simplified model we use but in real
life a country can have main regional
airspace and all local aspies and
regional aspies combine in order to
create network of a country
in summary the first step to connecting
to the internet is local asp
and this line represents the line we
purchased from the local isp right
every home or office must purchase such
a line from the relevant isp to connect
to the internet
and if you examine your home router
carefully you can see the cable coming
from your isp wonderful
now let's suppose that this computer and
this computer want to communicate with
each other by the way these two homes
are located in the usa but they are in
different cities as a result they are
connected to different local aspects
this is obvious so in this situation how
will this local sp communicate with this
local asp let's see in fact this is
where the original sp1 comes into play
in general the original asp is engaged
in the communication of devices in the
same countries but in different cities
if you look carefully at the animation
local isps communicate over the regional
asp this is obvious right and
there we go
and at this moment some of you may be
wondering why there is no direct link
from localized p2 to localize b3 this is
an expected question
just think about it if we connect
localize this directly the hierarchy is
broken i mean you see very few localized
piece in this scenario but in real life
there can be many local sps even in the
same city and if we connect them all
together complexity will definitely
occur and we don't want to increase the
complexity of this system it is already
quite complex isn't it and that's why we
use a central hierarchical isp structure
as you see individual with the minimum
number of connections between isps we
ensure that all isps communicate with
each other it's that simple
so far we have talked about local asp
and regional isp also the computers that
communicate with each other were always
in the usa but what if computers in
different countries want to communicate
with each other and this is where the
global asp comes into play you may think
that the global isp connects devices in
different countries in general as you
know there's an ocean between the usa
and china so if a device in the usa and
a device in china wants to communicate
it must be a global isp that provides
disconnection
we cannot connect these two devices with
only local asp and regional asp and as
you can see in the image there are
multiple global isps and these global
asps are the part of the hierarchy and
by using them these two computers can
communicate with each other
let's assume that this computer wants to
communicate with this computer in this
case the packet will first go to the
localized speaker you know and then go
to the regional sp1
and the packet has two options at this
moment this pad or this pad in other
words global sp1 or global sp3
i hope you understand that this
selection is determined by the routers
in the original sp1 each router makes a
choice and as a result of these choices
the router's patch is determined
let's say the packet will be forwarded
to global sp1 and there we go
by the way another packet that will pass
through original sv1 may go to the
global sb tree next time who knows
you catch the idea
anyway
afterwards let's say that the packet
will be sent from global sb1 to
globalize between and there we go
and at this stage the packet can be sent
to local sb6 or directly to the original
sb2 or globalize b3 either way it will
reach its destination what i am trying
to say is
the packet can follow different paths
and i want to show you some of these
paths for example from global asp2 to
local sb6 regional sb2 local sb7 and
destination or from global asb 2
to direct regional asp 2
local ace b7 and destination or from
global asp 2 to global sb 3
regional sb2 localized b7 and
destination again all of them are
suitable paths
you should also have noticed a situation
here if the destination of the packet
was this harm the packet could reach its
destination directly over localized v6
without going over regionalized feature
this means that some local aspects can
directly connect with global airspace
without a regional asp this is very
important
as you know
local asps represent small companies and
in some cases these small companies may
want a direct connection with a global
asp to provide a faster internet
experience to its customers
actually there are two ways for this
kind of connection in general
if a local asp connects directly with a
global isp its location can be very
suitable for this purpose
i mean related global asp can already
have an infrastructure on this location
however if the related global asp
doesn't have an infrastructure in this
location a lot of extra money must be
paid for this connection but local asp
company to the global asp company you
catch the idea
and for this package on the global asp2
let's say it will go to the original
isp2 instead of local sb6 or global sb3
okay and from here packet will go to the
localized b7 and there we go
as you can see localase b7 is connected
directly to the destination line
therefore locally sb7 knows that where
it will send the packet
and finally the home run receiving the
packet sends it to the destination
computer
voila as a result you have learned how
computers in two different regions of
the world communicate over the internet
you also learned the relationship
between the internet routers and isp
with each other and in the next lesson
we are going to cover two more scenarios
related to the isp concept see you guys
in a moment
let's say we are in belgium this is our
home and we want to connect to a newly
established website called
abcx.com the owners of the website have
limited financial power for this reason
they have only one server on the usa
so to be able to reach abcx.com
our request message must pass over at
least one globalism this is obvious
you can see the whole process on the
animation
and after the server of the abcx.com
receives the request message in exchange
for it
abcx.com creates a response message this
response message contains information
about the web page we want to enter it
includes images videos html file and
everything related to the web page
meanwhile if you don't know what an html
file is you can think of it as the
skeleton of a web page in a simplest
manner and after generating the response
message the server must send it to us
however the path preferred by the
response message will be different from
the path preferred by the request
message please pay attention to this on
the animation
there is no way to know the exact part
of a message beforehand since routers
can make different choices each time i
mean the path for a message is always
determined on the way never forget that
and as soon as we receive the response
message the website appears in our web
browser in summary when you want to
enter a website you first send a request
message to the server of website and the
web server receiving your request
message sends you a response message
which contains all information about the
web page you want to enter and when this
message comes to you your web browser
learns all information from this
response message and displays the
related web page in your web browser
and the surprising thing is
every time you want to enter a website
this process happens again
however since this process takes place
in milliseconds you don't realize that
there are complex operations in the
background
and now let's try to enter google.com
instead of abcx.com
and see what happens you know google is
quite different from
abcx.com since it is a giant company for
instance unlike abcx.com
google has many servers distributed all
around the world and with this
distributor server structure google
provides a much more efficient and fast
service to its customers and let's say
one of these servers is not far from our
home therefore when we want to enter
google.com or when we want to get any
service from google we will probably
connect to this server which is close to
us okay
for this reason the process will be much
faster
in fact this is the main reason why big
companies put many servers in different
locations around the world they want
customers to communicate with them in
the fastest and most efficient way and
the distributed server structure is a
great solution for such a desire i
believe you catch the idea
so when we want to request a service
from google our request message will go
to this server close to us
you know that how the packet reaches the
related server with the help of isps
and you know that what will happen
after this stage
google
sends us a response message related to
the servers we request however the time
for google to communicate with the
customers is sometimes not satisfactory
for google and google wants to increase
distribute in general fortunately google
has a very good solution for this kind
of issue called peering but what exactly
is peering
let's see
peering is the technique which google
establishes a direct connection with an
isp to provide faster access to its
servers
as you can see on the animation google
connects directly with the local asps
thus when we want to get a service from
google we will be able to communicate
directly with google servers without
using isp infrastructures in this way
google can communicate with the
customers much more effectively and
quickly at this moment everything is
good but what about security
since the number of public pub that
packets pass through decreases thanks to
peering security increases so much i
mean the packet goes directly to google
via local asp in other words the packet
does not use public isp infrastructures
to communicate with google
remember that security is very important
to large companies and it is obvious
that this direct connection decreases
the possibility to be obtained for the
package from the outside
wonderful
and last but not least i want to give
you an example as you know youtube is
owned by google so when you want to
watch a video on youtube you are
actually using google's distributed
servers around the world and you are all
aware that youtube works very
efficiently when you want to watch a
video on youtube you can watch it very
well you will not be interrupted
whatsoever the main reason for this is
the distributed server structure and the
peering infrastructure of google on the
other hand you may sometimes see phrases
and interruptions while watching videos
on udemy because udemy's infrastructure
is not as strong as google in general of
course udemy also uses a distributed
server structure but this number is
probably not as many as google this is
obvious in addition udemy doesn't use
peering and you know that peering is a
very efficient technology especially it
increases the streaming quality and
speed a lot
but i can say that udemy did a
significantly good job overall because
serving
millions of people at the same time is a
really challenging engineering problem
okay
in summary peering is a very effective
structure is used by giant companies
like google amazon and so on you got the
point
and finally i want to give you some
general information about isp as you
know global asps are responsible for the
international communication i can say
that although definitely not as many as
the original asp there are a few global
asps in the world and you can guess that
the technical reasons for not having
only a single global asp in the world we
have talked about similar things before
but in addition to these reasons like
load balancing and efficiency there are
also some financial reasons for this i
mean setting up a global isb company is
a very costly business at the beginning
but it makes its owner a lot of money
you know what i am saying right if you
have a lot of money establishing a
global asp company is a good choice it
will probably make you smile
with time
by the way we also call the internet
backbone to the network that global asp
set up with each other familiarity to
internet backbone term can be useful for
you in the future
in addition there are structures called
internet exchange point in order for the
internet backbone to work synchronously
and for global asps to communicate with
each other more efficiently and we
briefly call these structures ixp
or ix never forget that
and the last thing i want to mention is
that you don't have to connect to a
local asp in order to connect to the
internet you can directly connect to a
regional sp or global asp if these isps
have a service for your location this
means that you can learn which isps are
serving value leave and make your choice
according to this information it is
absolutely your decision to choose the
isp service you want okay
for example let's say this is our home
and we connect to the internet via
locally speaker however if we request we
can also connect directly to the
internet the original sb1 this is
possible what i am trying to say is if
you want to get your isp service from a
certain company and if this company
doesn't serve your location you can
contact the company and talk about what
you can do if you give the required
money to the isp company most regional
asp and global asp can provide you the
service you want that's it but for
normal users this is very unnecessary
normal users only need to choose one of
the isp services in their location and
benefit from it
on the other hand if you want to set up
a local asb company such a move may make
sense
wonderful and we talked about the isp in
general i think you got a lot of good
information but if you want you can do
more research about the isp on the
internet however that's all i have to
say in this course
you